Summary:
The article investigates constant-Q cepstral coefficients (CQCC) to perform classification of neuro-degenarative disorder from speech, and compared the results with respect to standard mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) and other low-level acoustic features, such as jitter, shimmer, teager-energy etc. The results presented in the paper indicate sufficient performance improvement compared to the MFCC baseline.

While this is a well motivated work that has the potential to impact detection of neuro-degenerative diseases using speech as the input modality, however it is not clear completely what the main novelty of the paper is. The authors did specify that the constant-Q cepstra is the main novelty presented in this work, however that is fairly incremental as such features have been used in speech technologies, perhaps not in the same application area as this article.

Soundness: 2: fair
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The paper focuses on speech based detection of neuro-degenerative disease, specifically Parkinson's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The paper is well motivated, clearly outlines the prior work that has been done and the contribution of the paper. Results presented in the article shows a strong performance demonstrated by the proposed approach as compared with MFCC-based system.

Weaknesses:
This is an interesting and relevant work focusing on detection/recognition of Parkinson's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) from speech data, consisting of sustained vowels, specifically focusing on constant-Q cepstral coefficients (CQCC) as acoustic features. There are certain aspects that needs to be addressed - (1) Given the findings are primarily based on sustained vowels, how do the observations generalize to spontaneous speech? Is it absolutely needed to have speech containing sustained vowel to be able to detect/recognize the condition investigated in this work? (2) Table 2 in the dataset section, introduces three datasets: D1, D2 and D3. However it is not clear which one of these correspond to the datasets detailed in section 4.1. Also, in section 4.1, there are two datasets that are introduced: (a) Italian Parkinson’s Voice and Speech dataset, and (b) Minsk2019 ALS database. Table 2 is confusing as it introduces three datasets, and it is not clear what is the 3rd dataset, and which datasets correspond to D1, D2 and D3. (3) Section 4.3 introduces MFCCs as state-of-the-art: I wonder about the rationale behind stating that MFCCs are state-of-the-art. Is there any prior work that established MFCCs as the state-of-the-art feature for this specific application? (4) There are some typing errors that can be addressed by proof-reading the paper: (a) page 2, section 2, line 094: "•Furthermore, no studies..." >> "• Furthermore, no studies... " (b) page 2, section 2, line 097: "this is the first study of it;s kind ... " >> "this is the first study of it's kind ... " (c) page 5, section 4.1, line 264: "..sustained sounds of all vowel sounds .. " > please rephrase this line, "sounds" is repeated twice and it makes the sentence a bit confusing.

Questions:
The paper presents an interesting and relevant application of speech technologies for detection of Parkinson's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) from speech data, consisting of sustained vowels. Please find below some open questions, which if addressed, can facilitate the paper to be more accessible to the general reader/audience.

(1) What is meant by D1, D2 and D3 in table 2? Is it possible to specify which ones correspond to the two datasets specified earlier: (a) Italian Parkinson’s Voice and Speech dataset, and (b) Minsk2019 ALS database?

(2) The dataset section 4.1 does not provide any detail on how the train, validation and test sets are created/obtained from the data shown in tables 2 and 3. Were there any speaker overlap between the train-dev-test splits?

(3) I wonder the rationale behind stating that MFCCs are state-of-the-art. Is there any prior work that established MFCCs as the state-of-the-art feature for this specific application?

(4) It is also not clear why 20 CQC coefficients were selected against 13 MFC coefficients? What is the rationale behind using 13 MFCCs only? Typically 13 is selected for speech recognition purposes, as higher cepstral coefficients are known to capture more speaker related attributes.

(5) Section 5.1 presents an interesting analysis using some examples, however it is not clear that how much of the observations shared in the analysis is captured by the features. Specifically the first 13 cepstral features may not capture speaker specific characteristics, including pitch. It is also not obvious if harmonic energy is captured well in the explored features. How consistent are these observations w.r.t speakers having varying degrees of ALS or Parkinsons disease?

(6) Section 5.2.2 presents an interesting analysis by comparing the findings against other relevant features. However, it will be useful to share if there is any prior art that have proposed the use of these features in isolation? Given jitter, shimmer and teager energy features, each capture different attributes in the acoustic speech signal, these features are usually used in combination with one another, rather than isolation. It is not clear why these features were explored in isolation as baseline. What happens when these features were combined, even when combined with MFCCs of CQCCs.

(7) Section 5.2.2, page 8, lines 385-386: "Two new databases D1 and D3 were prepared, where two different pathologies .." > it is not clear what D1, D2 and D3 represent? What are the two different pathologies specified here?

(8) I am wondering if the authors have considered using some of the paralinguistic feature sets well known in the literature such as the openSMILE features that contain attributes which have been used for analysis (table 6) shared in the paper.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 5: You are absolutely certain about your assessment. You are very familiar with the related work and checked the math/other details carefully.
Code Of Conduct: Yes