Summary:
This paper addresses the issue of hallucination in large language models (LLMs) within the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework. It introduces MAC-CAFE, a novel multi-agent reinforcement learning approach that iteratively refines external knowledge using expert feedback. Experimental results demonstrate that MAC-CAFE enhances LLM prediction accuracy by 8% compared to baseline methods.

Soundness: 1: poor
Presentation: 1: poor
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The focused issue of LLM hallucination is an important problem.

The motivation of the study that emphasizes knowledge editing makes sense.

Weaknesses:
My major concern lies in two aspects:

The rationale behind the design of the proposed method is insufficiently detailed. Although the authors thoroughly describe their implementation, particularly in Section 4, the intuition underlying each component of the design is not clearly described.

The result analysis section is quite limited. The authors mainly emphasize the effectiveness of the proposed approach but miss a variety of experiments, such as ablation studies or error analysis, to offer a deeper understanding of its characteristics. For example, which components of the approach are more influential than others? Are there any identifiable patterns in the prediction errors?

Additionally, the paper writing could be improved. For example, I’m a bit confused about the purpose of section 3. If the illustrative example is intended to motivate MAC-CAFE, it might be more effective to condense this description and incorporate it into the Introduction. Doing so would allow for a more detailed and thorough result analysis in the corresponding section.

Questions:
Please see the section on Weaknesses.

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes