Summary:
The paper is considering the problem of agent-based modeling of environments such as cities. Such models had been previously used with the agents performing relatively simple behaviors. While LLMs open new opportunities for controlling the behaviors of the individual agents, their computational cost presents a significant scaling problem.

The paper describes an architecture that enables the parallelization of the agents, to allow the modeling the daily activities of a city with 10,000 agents. The architecture appears to be based on an efficient polling model of the LLM, as well as the development of a prompting model called "group-and-distill". The application of these models show a more than 600-fold increase.

Soundness: 2: fair
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The overall goals of the paper, of capitalizing on the abilities of LLMs to achieve a better ABM model of cities, as well as addressing the scaling problems, are laudable.
Weaknesses:
Achieving a more than 600 fold speed increase in terms of an improved process scheduler and I/O scheduler can be probably seen as "debugging", rather than research result, and very likely has nothing to do with the LLM.
It seems that the very considerable computational effort of an LLM can only achieve an approximate parity with the much cheaper rule based efforts. This is understandable, as description of the behavior of the agents described in the paper follows the same position based rules that the ABM models historically use. As there is no consideration of language or other type of reasoning, the paper does not make it clear what type of benefits one would expect from LLMs.
The only part of the paper that has a connection to the topic of this conference is the way in which the "group-and-distill" model is proposed to achieve the simulation of multiple agents with one prompt. However, there is very little about this technique in the paper proper, so it is difficult to form a judgement.
Questions:
The paper spends comparatively less effort on explaining what kind of benefits do we expect from an LLM-based ABM. For instance, we can try to model thought processes of the humans, or their communication. Does the choice of this modeling impact the proposed techniques?
Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 3: reject, not good enough
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Code Of Conduct: Yes