Summary:
ABM and LLM is leveraged to develop one platform for open city modeling and planning. It is a nice simulation platform and the paper provides application scenarios. Concretely,

This paper combines agent-based models with large language models to develop the OpenCity platform for simulating urban activities. It reduces simulation computational costs through IO multiplexing and the "group-and-distill" prompt optimization strategy.
Through experiments conducted in six major cities worldwide, OpenCity demonstrates a 635 plus increase in average simulation speed per agent, along with a 70% decrease in LLM requests and a 50% reduction in token usage. The time savings are mainly concentrated in the LLM response wait time and the CPU multiplexing process.
The OpenCity platform proposed in this paper achieves the first benchmark testing for LLM agent-based urban activity simulation research.
Soundness: 2: fair
Presentation: 2: fair
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The paper give a detailed introduction of the novel methods and the real outcome.

Originality: The paper presents a novel approach by integrating Large Language Models with agent-based modeling to simulate urban activities. There has been limited research on combining LLMs with agent-based models, and even less so in the context of large-scale urban activity simulations. By using IO multiplexing and the "group-and-distill" prompt optimization strategy to reduce the computational cost of simulations, this paper has made the application of LLMs in large-scale urban activity simulations possible.
Quality: The research is well organized with a clear methodology and experiments conducted in real cities data. The results show notable improvements in both simulation efficiency and accuracy, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed platform.
Clarity: The paper is written in a clear and concise manner; it is easy to understand through the explanation of figures
Significance: This paper establishes a benchmark for LLM agent-based urban activity simulation research. This paper also provides a scalable framework for simulating urban dynamics.
Weaknesses:
There is a lack of theoretical contribution, overall, rather it is an application tool development with leveraging well established tools. It may not fit ICLR the best though not out of scope at all. Further,

Some parts of the main body text are not rigorous enough. For example, Equation 1 is missing a parenthesis, and the IPL method is mistakenly labeled as the LPL method in Figure 2.
This research has high requirements for data quality. Additionally, despite significantly improving computational efficiency and reducing costs, the platform may still require substantial computational resources.
When simulating cities in different countries, the dynamic properties to be considered should not be entirely the same, and some of the assumed static properties may also change during the simulation process.
Questions:
It seems that the formula in Equation 1 misses a parenthesis? And it can also be split into two separate equations.
In Section 3.2, the content of Figure 1(b) is introduced, however, the Figure 1(a) is discussed in Section 4.1. Is this logical? It is suggested to swap the subtitles of the figures for better coherence.
This paper categorized the CPU task as ”local IO”, offload it to available cores for computation through a multi-core parallel scheme, and then return the result to the designated agent upon completion of the computation.
Is there an increase in CPU task scheduling time? How does it compare to the time saved in saving#3?
The paper states that "A conventional approach is to reuse the generated result of a single LLM request across multiple agents, and this approach presents two significant drawbacks." However, it only describes one drawback.
The paper introduces Figure 2(a) first, which prompts readers to check the content of Figure 2(a). However, they will encounter a series of unexplained equations, which could cause confusion. The paper cites Figure 2 only in the subsequent description, and the explanation of Figure 2(a) is found only in the explanation of the methodology of Figure 2 in the main text. Is it possible to optimize this part of the description?
From the subsequent description in the main text, it is understood that Figure 2(a) is introducing the IPL method, but in the figure is labeled as the LPL method.
How is the threshold T in the IPL method of this paper determined?
Are the baseline in Figure 3 increased simulation response time due to the load as the number of agents increases?
In Table 3, there is no explanation for the missing RMSE results for New York and San Francisco. According to Appendix A, the data for these two cities comes from Safegraph, and the number of users is aggregated. So how is the GROUP-AND-DISTILL performed in these two cities?
Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Details Of Ethics Concerns:
na

Rating: 5: marginally below the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Code Of Conduct: Yes