Summary:
The paper "Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning Performs Non-Linear System Identification" explores contrastive learning (CL) for identifying non-linear temporal representations. It presents proof of the identifiability of latent variables up to a linear transformation, removing the requirement for independent noise. The proposed model, DynCL, is validated using synthetic data to support the theoretical findings. Additionally, the authors introduce a model called delta-SLDS, designed to capture switching between linear and non-linear dynamic systems.

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 2: fair
Contribution: 3: good
Strengths:
The theorem is both interesting and novel, demonstrating that the learned latent variables can be identifiable up to linear transformations even in the absence of independent noise, provided that some other assumptions are met.
This theorem provides valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying contrastive self-supervised learning methods.
A lot of ablation studies and visualization experiments are conducted, which makes the paper more convincing.
Weaknesses:
Notations are not clear. For example, in Eq (3), the meanings of 
 should be mentioned in advance.
In theorem (1) and its proof, the assumption is not aligned with Equation (1-2), where all noise disappears. Further discussion is required.
The difference in theorem part should be compared with previous works on CL more detailed, since it is a work focusing on theorem. Making the difference more clear will make it more readable.
In experiment parts
Baselines like TCL should be compared
By identifiability, some metrics like MCC should be compared even though they are not component-wise identifiable.
Lots of typos:
line 133 (supp figure), line 145 (...), seems unfinished part
line 250: tailor -> talyor
line 637: Theorem 2 -> Theorem A1
footnote of page 13: broken reference
line 659, 665: missing reference
Questions:
It is confusing why it requires 120 GPU days on A100 for these synthetic data. Methods like TCL require only dozens of minutes for one synthetic data. What is the detailed model structure with approximate parameter size?
Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 3: You are fairly confident in your assessment. It is possible that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes