Summary:
The main contribution of this paper is to provide identifiability theory for contrastive learning on time-series data with non-linear mixing, in the same spirit as time-contrastive learning (Hyvärinen & Morioka, 2016) for non-linear ICA. However, the authors discard the independence assumptions typically made in non-linear ICA with respect to the latent variables, and instead define a dynamical system as the data generating process. The proof operates under the assumption that the mapping from latent states to observables is injective but not necessarily linear, which is exploited to show that the composition of mixing and de-mixing by the model is an affine transform. As such, the estimated dynamics via contrastive estimation identify the true dynamics up to affine transformation in the latent space. There are experiments that corroborate the validity of this approach.

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 2: fair
Contribution: 3: good
Strengths:
Applying contrastive learning to recover latent dynamics is itself a relatively new approach and the paper is well organised. The proofs use standard jacobian analysis tools and is easy to follow.

Weaknesses:
The paper needs refinement, with minor typos and inadequately captioned figures. While studying the identifiability of time-series contrastive learning might be novel, all the technical tools require carefully controlled assumptions and specific behavior of Jacobians under contrastive loss minimization, which typically do not hold in practice. Nonetheless, such assumptions are common in the literature on the identifiability of dynamical systems from observed time series.

Questions:
None

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 2: You are willing to defend your assessment, but it is quite likely that you did not understand the central parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work. Math/other details were not carefully checked.
Code Of Conduct: Yes