Summary:
This paper proposes a new mathematical formulation for the rate-perception-distortion tradeoff. Specifically, in the previous rate-perception-distortion formulation, the perceptual quality constraint is a constraint on the statistical divergence between the distribution of the decoded images and that of the clean images. In theory, this typically leads to randomized decoders, which produce many different decoded images given an encoded one. However, in practice, high-perceptual-quality compression-decompression algorithms rarely incorporate such randomness. To explain this phenomenon, the authors replace the perceptual quality constraint with a new interesting concept called the "universal critic", which poses a perceptual quality constraint on individual images (or on a batch of images). The new rate-perception-distortion formulation leads to solutions which do not incorporate randomness. This is a sensible result given the fact that now there is no constraint on the distribution of the decoded images.

Soundness: 2: fair
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 4: excellent
Strengths:
This paper is incredibly interesting, and written very well. The theoretical results are interesting and serve a highly important contribution to the community of information theorists.

Weaknesses:
There are no experiments, demonstrations, simulations, presented evidence, etc. This paper contains only theoretical results, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but I am not sure whether it's a fit for the ICLR community (most of which are practitioners). I would expect to see this paper in a theoretical journal.

There is no discussion/limitation section discussing the possible future continuation of this work.

Questions:
I am aware that universal critics cannot be implemented practically, but still, is there a way to somehow simulate/demonstrate the new tradeoff on simple examples (perhaps a Bernoulli source)?

Is there a way to demonstrate on previous works that less randomness is indeed attributed to better universal critic scores? Namely, is it possible to demonstrate that one may benefit from better rate&distortion by avoiding randomness, but still achieving high-perceptual-quality in the sense of universal critics?

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Code Of Conduct: Yes