Summary:
This work presents a new PyTorch-compatible library for remotely accessing the internal structures of deep-neural-network-based models such as large language models (LLMs) and altering the way they operate. Using this library, it is possible to produce intervention code which is hooked into the original model to read or replace original model parameters and activations. This intervention code is translated into a directed acyclic intervention graph that augments the computational graph of the original model. Others have proposed similar, but less flexible mechanisms. For instance, pyvene (Wu et al., 2024) supports dictionary-based intervention definitions instead of the code-based interventions proposed by this work, which can also be transformed into graph-based representations and further optimised, e.g., by TorchScript. Petals (Borzunov et al., 2023), on the other hand, does not support remote execution of the intervention code, requiring it to be executed locally, which limits virtualisation opportunities and leads to additional communication overheads.

Soundness: 3: good
Presentation: 3: good
Contribution: 2: fair
Strengths:
The proposed approach involves some new mechanisms that complement the related work.
By enabling remote execution of the intervention code the authors have demonstrated a superior performance compared to Petals.
Weaknesses:
An interesting real-life application of the infrastructure built is missing. For instance, the authors could consider demonstrating their system on a large-scale interpretability study or model editing task that would be infeasible without their infrastructure.

Questions:
It looks like the main technical contribution of this work is the enablement of efficient/virtualised remote interventions on LLMs. Could the authors elaborate on why they believe this contribution is relevant and impactful for the ICLR community?

Flag For Ethics Review: No ethics review needed.
Rating: 6: marginally above the acceptance threshold
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Code Of Conduct: Yes